diplomacy.md, before:


[Rocket](Readme.md)/[diplomacy](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/tree/master/src/main/scala/diplomacy)
========================
*Definitions for the LazyModule design patterns.*

**********************

+ [AddressDecoder](diplomacy/AddressDecoder.md)<br>
+ [DeviceTree](diplomacy/DeviceTree.md)<br>
  Device tree generation functions.
+ [LayzModule](diplomacy/LazyModule.md)<br>
  A module generator to allow run-time configuration negotiation before the actual module elaboration (generation).
+ [Nodes](diplomacy/Nodes.md)<br>
  Regulate the communication interface of a interconnect node.
+ [Parameters](diplomacy/Parameters.md)<br>
  Basic parameter definitions (address space).
+ [Resources](diplomacy/Resources.md)<br>
  Detailed definition of a resource (device).

<br><br><br><p align="right">
<sub>
Last updated: 12/07/2017<br>
[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com)<br>
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.SiFive), &copy; (2016-2017) SiFive, Inc<br>
[BSD](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.Berkeley), &copy; (2012-2014, 2016) The Regents of the University of California (Regents)
</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

finally kind of finish reading diplomacy.node

diplomacy.md, after:


[Rocket](Readme.md)/[diplomacy](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/tree/master/src/main/scala/diplomacy)
========================
*Definitions for the LazyModule design patterns.*

**********************

+ [AddressDecoder](diplomacy/AddressDecoder.md)<br>
+ [DeviceTree](diplomacy/DeviceTree.md)<br>
  Device tree generation functions.
+ [LayzModule](diplomacy/LazyModule.md)<br>
  A module generator to allow run-time configuration negotiation before the actual module elaboration (generation).
+ [Nodes](diplomacy/Nodes.md)<br>
  A port binding elaboration library based on virtual nodes.
+ [Parameters](diplomacy/Parameters.md)<br>
  Basic parameter definitions (address space).
+ [Resources](diplomacy/Resources.md)<br>
  Detailed definition of the resource attached to a device (device tree generation and PMA propagation).

<br><br><br><p align="right">
<sub>
Last updated: 04/08/2017<br>
[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com)<br>
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.SiFive), &copy; (2016-2017) SiFive, Inc<br>
[BSD](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.Berkeley), &copy; (2012-2014, 2016) The Regents of the University of California (Regents)
</sub>
</p>
