diplomacy/LazyModule.md, before:

[Rocket](../Readme.md)/[diplomacy](../diplomacy.md)/[LazyModule](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/src/main/scala/diplomacy/LazyModule.scala)
=====================
*Definition of LazyModule: the base for diplomacy and cacke pattern.*

**********************

## abstract class LazyModule
*Module generator. Allow postponed (lazy) module elaboration.*

+ **children** `List[LazyModule]` (protected) list of sub-modules.
+ **parent** `Option[LazyModule]` (protected) parent module.

  > `childran` and `parent` record the module hierarchy with the help of `LazyModule.stack`.<br>
  > For a module hierarchy as : `A{ B{ C, D }, E }`:
  > ~~~
  > A.parent = None  A.children = B, E
  > B.parent = A     B.children = C, D
  > C.parent = B     C.children = ()
  > D.parent = B     D.children = ()
  > E.parent = A     E.children = ()
  > ~~~

+ **nodes** `List[BaseNode]` (protected) all diplomacy nodes (one-level, not recursive) in this LazyModule.
+ **bindings** `List[() => Unit]`<br>
  (protected) The port connection callbacks generated by InwardNodeImp.connect of all nodes in this LazyModule.
+ *info: SourceInfo*: (protected) source information (line number, etc.) for better error/warning messages.
+ *suggestName: (x:String) => Unit*: set the suggested module name?
+ *moduleName: _ => String*: ??
+ *instanceName: _ => String*: ??
+ *name: _ => String*: ??
+ *line: _ => String*: get source line string.
+ *module: _ => LazyModuleImp*: get the actual chisel Module implementation.
+ *instantiate: _ => Unit*: instantiate all children after run-time configuration. (called by LazyModuleImp)
+ *graphML: String*: node connection graph in graphML.
+ *nodeIterator: (iterfunc: (LazyModule) => Unit) => Unit*: a cross hierarchy module traveller.

### object LazyModule
*Global stack to keep the module hierarchy.*

+ **stack** `List[LazyModule]` (protected) a stack of LazyModules that have not been constructed.
+ **apply** `[T <: LazyModule](bc:T) => bc` a LazyModule wrapper to enforce the LazyModule construction order.

## abstract class LazyModuleImp
*The actual Module implementation of a LazyModule.*

~~~scala
abstract class LazyModuleImp(outer: LazyModule) extends Module
~~~

+ *val p: Parameters*: configuration from the paired LazyModule.








<br><br><br><p align="right">
<sub>
Last updated: 01/08/2017<br>
[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com)<br>
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.SiFive), &copy; (2016-2017) SiFive, Inc<br>
[BSD](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.Berkeley), &copy; (2012-2014, 2016) The Regents of the University of California (Regents)
</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

painfully analyse the code and figure out the lazy elaboration prcoess for the negotiation process of port parameters.

diplomacy/LazyModule.md, after:

[Rocket](../Readme.md)/[diplomacy](../diplomacy.md)/[LazyModule](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/src/main/scala/diplomacy/LazyModule.scala)
=====================
*Definition of LazyModule: the base for diplomacy and cacke pattern.*

**********************

## abstract class LazyModule
*Module generator. Allow postponed (lazy) module elaboration.*

+ **children** `List[LazyModule]` (protected) list of sub-modules.
+ **parent** `Option[LazyModule]` (protected) parent module.

  > `childran` and `parent` record the module hierarchy with the help of `LazyModule.stack`.<br>
  > For a module hierarchy as : `A{ B{ C, D }, E }`:
  > ~~~
  > A.parent = None  A.children = B, E
  > B.parent = A     B.children = C, D
  > C.parent = B     C.children = ()
  > D.parent = B     D.children = ()
  > E.parent = A     E.children = ()
  > ~~~

+ **nodes** `List[BaseNode]` (protected) all diplomacy nodes (one-level, not recursive) in this LazyModule.
+ **bindings** `List[() => Unit]`<br>
  (protected) The port connection callbacks generated by `InwardNodeImp.connect()` of all nodes in this LazyModule.
+ *info: SourceInfo*: (protected) source information (line number, etc.) for better error/warning messages.
+ *suggestName: (x:String) => Unit*: set the suggested module name?
+ *moduleName: _ => String*: ??
+ *instanceName: _ => String*: ??
+ *name: _ => String*: ??
+ *line: _ => String*: get source line string.
+ *module: _ => LazyModuleImp*: get the actual chisel Module implementation.
+ **instantiate** `() => Unit`<br>
  (protected) generate the actual sub-modules (`children`) hardware after all parameters are resolved.
  Also it connect the port connections among sub-modules and ports according to `bindings`.
+ *graphML: String*: node connection graph in graphML.
+ *nodeIterator: (iterfunc: (LazyModule) => Unit) => Unit*: a cross hierarchy module traveller.

### object LazyModule
*Global stack to keep the module hierarchy.*

+ **stack** `List[LazyModule]` (protected) a stack of LazyModules that have not been constructed.
+ **apply** `[T <: LazyModule](bc:T) => bc` a LazyModule wrapper to enforce the LazyModule construction order.

## abstract class LazyModuleImp
*The actual Module implementation of a LazyModule.*

~~~scala
abstract class LazyModuleImp(outer: LazyModule) extends Module
~~~

+ *val p: Parameters*: configuration from the paired LazyModule.








<br><br><br><p align="right">
<sub>
Last updated: 03/08/2017<br>
[CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com)<br>
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.SiFive), &copy; (2016-2017) SiFive, Inc<br>
[BSD](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.Berkeley), &copy; (2012-2014, 2016) The Regents of the University of California (Regents)
</sub>
</p>
