[Rocket](../Readme.md)/[coreplex](../coreplex.md)/[Configs](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/src/main/scala/coreplex/Configs.scala)
========================
*Config a core complex.*

**********************

## class BaseCoreplexConfig
*Default configuration for a core complex which may contain multiple homogeneous cores.*

#### Tile parameters
+ **PAddrBits** `Int` width of physical addresses.
+ **PgLevels** `Int` number of page levels (Sv48:4, Sv39:3, Sv32:2).
+ **ASIdBits** `Int` size of ASID (address space identifier, used in related to virtual memory).
+ **XLen** `Int` size of default machine word (32/64).
+ **ResetVectorBits** `Int`<br>
  The reset address after power on is an input port to a tile.
  Here defines the width of this reset address.
+ **MaxHartIdBits** `Int` digits needed to store hartid in hardware.
+ **BuildCore** `(Parameters) => CoreModule with HasCoreIO` generation function to get a core for the complex.
+ **RocketTilesKey** `Seq[RocketTileParams]` (lazy) the parameters for the cores inside the complex.

#### Interconnect parameters
+ **RocketCrossing** `CoreplexClockCrossing` a parameter class to define the clock domain crossing (synchronous, asynchronous, rational).
+ **BroadcastParams** `BroadcastParams` a parameter class to define the broadcasting coherence hub if it is chosen.
+ **BankedL2Params** `BankedL2Params` a parameter class to define the banked L2 coherent cache if it is chosen.
+ **SystemBusParams** `SystemBusParams` a parameter class to define the system bus (coherent bus for memory?).
+ **PeripheryBusParams** `PeripheryBusParams` a parameter class to define the peripherial bus.
+ **MemoryBusParams** `MemoryBusParams` a parameter class to define the memory bus at the backend of last level cache.
+ **CacheBlockBytes** `Int` size of a cache block (nearly always set to 64).

#### Device parameters
+ **DebugModuleParams** `DebugModuleParams` a parameter class to define the debug module.
+ **PLICParams** `PLICParams` a parameter class to define the platform level interrupt controller.
+ **ClintParams** `ClintParams` a parameter class to define the coreplex local interrupts (timer, software interrupts).

#### TileLink connection global parameters
+ **TLMonitorBuilder** `(TLMonitorArgs) => Option[TLMonitorBase]`<br>
  TileLink bus monitor generator which can also be sued to disable bus monitor altogether.
+ **TLCombinationalCheck** `Boolean`<br>
  Whether to enable simulation time combinational check on TileLink channels (ready generated by valid and then form a loop).


<br><br><br><p align="right">
<sub>
Last updated: 26/07/2017<br>
[CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com)<br>
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.SiFive), &copy; (2016-2017) SiFive, Inc<br>
[BSD](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/LICENSE.Berkeley), &copy; (2012-2014, 2016) The Regents of the University of California (Regents)
</sub>
</p>
