coreplex/CoreplexNetwork.md, before:

[Rocket](../Readme.md)/[coreplex](../coreplex.md)/[CoreplexNetwork](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/src/main/scala/coreplex/CoreplexNetwork.scala)
========================
*On-chip interconnect of a Rocket-chip.*

**********************

### CoreplexNetwork
*Trait for LazyModule.*

~~~scala
trait CoreplexNetwork extends HasCoreplexParameters
~~~

+ **module** `CoreplexNetworkModule` pointer to the generated module.
+ **sbus** `LazyModule(new TLXbar)` globally-visible high-bandwidth devices.
+ **pbus** `LazyModule(new TLXbar)` globally-visible low-bandwidth devices.
+ **tile_splitter** `LazyModule(new TLSplitter)` cycle-free connection to external networks.
+ **int_xbar** `LazyModule(new IntXbar)` interrupt crossbar.
+ **mmio** `TLOutputNode()` external memory-mapped IO slaves.
+ **mmioInt** `IntInputNode()` external devices' interrupts.
+ **l2in** `TLInputNode()` external masters talking to the frontside of the shared cache.
+ **l2out** `TLOutputNode()` external slaves hanging off the backside of the shared cache.
+ **root** `Device` the root (`/`) desciption in the device tree.
+ **soc** `Device` the `soc` desciption in the device tree.
+ **cpus** `Device` the `cpus` desciption in the device tree.
+ **topManagers** `Some(ManagerUnification)` ??

![Coreplex Network](../figure/coreplex/coreplex_network.png)



<br><br><br><p align="right"><sub>[CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com), 21/06/2017</sub></p>

Commit message:

add coreplex network bundle and twik diagram

coreplex/CoreplexNetwork.md, after:

[Rocket](../Readme.md)/[coreplex](../coreplex.md)/[CoreplexNetwork](https://github.com/freechipsproject/rocket-chip/blob/master/src/main/scala/coreplex/CoreplexNetwork.scala)
========================
*On-chip interconnect of a Rocket-chip.*

**********************

### CoreplexNetwork
*Trait for LazyModule.*

~~~scala
trait CoreplexNetwork extends HasCoreplexParameters
~~~

+ **module** `CoreplexNetworkModule` pointer to the generated module.
+ **sbus** `LazyModule(new TLXbar)` globally-visible high-bandwidth devices.
+ **pbus** `LazyModule(new TLXbar)` globally-visible low-bandwidth devices.
+ **tile_splitter** `LazyModule(new TLSplitter)` cycle-free connection to external networks.
+ **int_xbar** `LazyModule(new IntXbar)` interrupt crossbar.
+ **mmio** `TLOutputNode()` external memory-mapped IO slaves.
+ **mmioInt** `IntInputNode()` external devices' interrupts.
+ **l2in** `TLInputNode()` external masters talking to the frontside of the shared cache.
+ **l2out** `TLOutputNode()` external slaves hanging off the backside of the shared cache.
+ **root** `Device` the root (`/`) desciption in the device tree.
+ **soc** `Device` the `soc` desciption in the device tree.
+ **cpus** `Device` the `cpus` desciption in the device tree.
+ **topManagers** `Some(ManagerUnification)` ??

<img align="center" src="../figure/coreplex/coreplex_network.png" width="600">

### CoreplexNetworkBundle
*Bundle trait for Rocket-chip with on-chip interconnects.*

~~~scala
trait CoreplexNetworkBundle extends HasCoreplexParameters
~~~

+ **outer** `CoreplexNetwork` pointer to the LazyModule.
+ **mmio** `HeterogeneousBag[TLBundle] = outer.mmio.bundleOut` mmio ports.
+ **interrupts** `HeterogeneousBag[TLBundle] = outer.mmioInt.bundleIn` external interrupts.
+ **l2in** `HeterogeneousBag[TLBundle] = outer.l2in.bundleIn` external master ports to the shared cache.
+ **l2out** `HeterogeneousBag[TLBundle] = outer.l2out.bundleOut` external slave ports from the shared cache.

### 


<br><br><br><p align="right"><sub>[CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), &copy; (2017) [Wei Song](mailto:wsong83@gmail.com), 22/06/2017</sub></p>
